This is the beginning, and we are kind of going through all these so many kinds of things,
so many different teachings or different levels of the teachings that in the teachings said,
"All is the part of Dzogchen. All is the part of Dzogchen. Dzogchen is like every teaching.
Everything is within Dzogchen's state." As I said yesterday, the great master of post-Nechente,
how he put that in the Tibetan terminology.
Dzogchen is the Tibetan lord, and we make that letter longer.
Full sentence in Tibetan is called Dzokpachim. Dzokpachim. That's the Tibetan Dzokpachim.
Dzokpachim is what the great master of post-Nechente said, I think I said yesterday too,
that he said that entirely everything, both Samsara, Nirvana, and the part of the Nirvana,
all are completed within one single state with Dharmadathu.
Dharmadathu. All is completed within one single Dharmadathu.
How that is completed? It's not just some, Dharmadathu is a big, jagged ball, and everything is
included there.
Everything, whatever that is, in the Samsara, in the Nirvana, part of the Nirvana,
all are never separated from the Dharmadathu. All that.
And so that is what Dzokp, great complete, great complete status.
And pa, in Dzokpachim, pa means in the great master of post-Nechente, pa refers to rupa, rupa.
The awareness, one's own awareness. So that great Dharmadathu, where they're completed,
that Dharmadathu and rupas are inseparable.
Within the one single state of rupa, of the openness nature, everything is completed.
And so that means rupa is intelligent, awareness wisdom, Dharmadathu is the emptiness aspect of the
nature,
and both are united, union states.
And then you say, chipu means what?
Chipu means when you have got that realization, there's nothing higher and better,
more important realization than that, and true discovery than that.
Therefore, it's called chipu, dzokpachim.
So therefore, I mean, these are all teachings, everything is really in the Lord.
In the Dzokpchim, or many times in the Tikhim mentioned, every teaching of the Buddhas.
From the day one, his teaching and all the Atiana's teachings are the passage to the Dzokchim.
They are the staircase to the Dzokchim, to the skull.
So all is within the Dzokchim state.
So therefore, here, in this great teaching of the Shirdi Durya number,
explaining of all this, all this math, everything is included.
Although there's more, more is explained here, and so now that's with that understanding.